## The New dL

The dL_vars example lists the function `dlvar`, but it is unclear if this
should be used.

> The following use of `dLVars` is OK in examples, but
> it should be avoided in general as the theorems are not
> general for all `dLVars` (only those defined by the constants)

UPDATE: the `dLVar` function should ***NOT*** be used.

A changing variable can be described like this: 

```java
pairwise_distinct_vars((:x, y, z:))
```

A constant variable (A, W, and D in this example) can be described like this: 

```java
 RTA_simple_break_0: LEMMA
  FORALL(A,W,D,tau:posreal):
     (W-D > 0 AND tau <= sqrt(((W - D) / A))) IMPLIES
  LET  tstar: real = sqrt((W-D)/A),
       ttau: real  =  max(sqrt((W-D)/A)- tau,0),
       star: real = (W-D)/2,
       stau: real = A*ttau^2/2,
       vstar: real = A*tstar,
       vtau: real = A*ttau,
       P = val(s) <= cnst(W-D),
       S = (val(s) <= cnst(stau) AND val(v) <= cnst(vtau)),
       G = (val(s) <= cnst(star) AND val(v) <= cnst(vstar))
  IN 
  ((: (val(s)= cnst(0) AND val(v) = cnst(0)) :) |- (: ALLRUNS(simple_break_RTA(A,D,S,tau),P) :))

```

Another Example where `G` is a constant: 

```java
% general low confidence vontroller, with monitor gaurd
lc(G:posreal): HP =
 DIFF(lc_odes, val(x)^2+val(y)^2 <= cnst(G)^2)
```

DIFF() and ASSIGN() are different. This: `>>` syntax is used in both. See [this
file](../assets/learning/dlvars_example.pvs) for an example of how to use the
new syntax


See [this file](../assets/learning/RTA_brake_ex.pvs ) for the new RTA function
that I am going to generalize Example 2 to fit to. 

## Working on Example 2

Upon further consideration, there are some cases that need to be taken into
account:

* Both drones are at exact same velocity and acceleration, Drone a intercepts
Drone b's path out of the corridor at wall B. We have make sure the monitor
checks at a time where, even at max velocity/acceleration for both drones, Drone
b makes it out of the corridor before Drone a.
  * Assume Drone a is intentionally trying to collide with Drone b

* Drone b is moving very slow. Slow enough to where the monitor triggers and the
reversionary system starts exiting the corridor very early, to ensure drone b has
enough time to get to safety
  * The conditions at which the monitor triggers the reversionary system must
  take into account drone b's current velocity and acceleration. This
  information can be used to determine 

* If both drones are at the same velocity and start accelerating at exactly the
same time, they will reach the same point on the x axis at the same time. Thus,
drone b must start moving out of the way of drone a when drone a is at a
distance where it can reach Wall B and still be separated (x) from drone b. 

* Both the x and y velocity must be considered, but the x velocity should be
what the monitor checks. The y velocity is important only because it determines
how fast drone b can exit the corridor. 

## Message to Tanner

TLDR: 
 
There are many more things I didn't consider, and two questions about how you want this to look like: 
 
1) should drone b ALWAYS fly towards Wall B to reach safety, even when it would be significantly easier to exit through Wall A? 
2) should the max velocity and acceleration of both drones be the same?

> If both drones have the exact same velocity and start accelerating at exactly
> the same time and at the same acceleration, and assuming drone a has some
> malicious intent and will always hit drone b, drone a will never be able to
> escape in time. In this scenario the a line  x = some value can be drawn at the
> exit point, with both drones starting their acceleration at equal distances on
> either side of this line. To avoid the collision, drone b has to start moving to
> safety before it reaches that distance. One way to go about ensuring this is to
> make the monitor essentially consider the future case - tau seconds from now,
> assuming worst possible conditions, will we be able to veer to safety? if no,
> start veering now. I remember thinking of doing something similar to this in the
> last proof, and our solution definitely did this more elegantly, so I don't
> think this is a viable solution. Going to continue to think about it. 
> 
> Also, the "worst possible solution" I was considering was one where both drones
> are moving at their max velocities, and drone b is approaching the exit point
> along wall B where drone a will meet it. However, there is another case where
> drone a is moving very slow, or has some acceleration or velocity in the y
> direction that will force it to turn back around towards wall B, meaning the
> switch to the reversionary controller has to happen earlier so drone b has time
> to reach safety. The monitor will have to consider these situations too (working
> on this, pretty sure its just going to be physics like last time). 
> 
> Also, making drone b always exit towards Wall B will make this simpler, but also
> possibly "too safe", since there are many scenarios where drone b will be
> rapidly approaching Wall A just to turn all the way around to reach Wall B when
> simply exiting through Wall A would've been a lot more reasonable. On the other
> hand, this would make this more complicated. What do you think?
> 
> Also, should I assume the drones are identical in their max
> velocities/accelerations, or simply have them be arbitrary values? If there are
> arbitrary values there will need to be some constraints on either drone a's max
> vel. and acc. or drone b's starting distance from drone a that are dependent on
> drone a's max vel. and acc. Assuming they have the same max velocity and max
> acceleration would make sense/make some things simpler, but also less realistic.
> Which should I do?

 TODO: Read "Thing 3" in [this](2023-10-18.md) journal entry to catch up on Example 2.
 TODO: Start Example 2 Proof in dL


