## Creating more realistic buffer distance pt. 2

> Assume I _do_ know the velocity of drone b. It is at some velocity, and once I
> check that velocity, it starts accelerating at the max acceleration. Depending
> on this information, dynamically change the $\Delta x$ equation so that the
> buffer distance is not as conservative. This should be fairly simple because I
> know the following things:
>
> - how long drone a's reversionary procedure will take
> - how far drone a will travel after the reversionary procedure has started
> - (after using basic kinematics) how far drone a will travel given its velocity
>   and acceleration

## 2024-05-06: a continuation of last week's journal (above)

The monitor will check the velocity of drone b once the reversionary procedure
begins, so to assume the worst possible scenario we must assume that the drone
immediately begins accelerating at the max acceleration until it reaches the max
velocity and continues at at a constant speed. This is what a basic version of
that could look like in code:

$v_max$ is the maximum $x$ velocity of the drones.

```python
if t <= v_max / a:
        # During the acceleration phase (0 <= t <= v_x / a)
        delta_x = 0.5 * a * t**2
    else:
        # During the constant velocity phase (t > v_x / a)
        delta_x = v_max * t - 0.5 * (v_max**2) / a
```

However, the above assumes an initial velocity of 0. To reduce this to one
mathematical expression (which may or may not be needed) and account for an
initial velocity, we can use `max()` and `min()` (assuming we can use those).

The combined position function can be expressed as:

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->

$$
\Delta x = \\
v_{initial,x}[min(t, \frac{v_{max,x} - v_{initial,x}}{a})] +
[\frac{1}{2}a\times\text{min}(t, \frac{v_{max,x} - v_{initial,x}}{a})^2] + \\
[v_{max,x}\times\text{max}(0, (t-\frac{v_{max,x} - v_{initial,x}}{a}))]
$$

> The basic structure of this equation is below:

$$ \Delta x = v_{initial}t^\prime + \frac{1}{2} a(t^\prime)^2+ v_{max}(t−t^\prime) $$
$$t^\prime =\frac{v_{max} - v_{initial}}{a}$$

<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

---

We also know from this equation:

$$\Delta x = v_x(\frac{T}{v_y} + \frac{3v_y}{2D})$$

that

$$t= (\frac{T}{3v_y} + \frac{v_y}{2D})$$

is the time that drone A needs to complete its reversionary procedure. We can
plug this in to the super long equation from above to make this:

$$
\Delta x = \\
[v_{initial}\times min((\frac{T}{3v_y} + \frac{v_y}{2D}), \frac{v_{max} - v_{initial}}{a})] +
[\frac{1}{2}a\times\text{min}((\frac{T}{3v_y} + \frac{v_y}{2D}), \frac{v_{max} -
v_{initial}}{a})^2] + \\
[v_{max}\times\text{max}(0, ((\frac{T}{3v_y} + \frac{v_y}{2D})-\frac{v_{max} - v_{initial}}{a}))]
$$

The above expression is the change in x position for drone B during the time it
takes for drone A to complete its reversionary procedure.

> TODO: Write this as a piecewise function \
> TODO: Define this as a hybrid program
