## Methods and Materials

To complete the proof for the drone braking system in Example 1, the
specification consisting of constants, changing variables, assumptions, and the
hybrid system must first be created.

In this case, the only constant variables, although arbitrarily constant, are
$bf$ and $e$, which represent the $x$ location of the buffer line and the
location of the wall the drone is approaching, respectively.

The changing variable are $v$, the velocity, $x$, the position of the drone,
$a$, the acceleration, and $vi$, a variable that is used in the reversionary
controller to store the initial velocity of the drone after it passes the
buffer.

The assumptions to be made prior to the establishment of the hybrid system are
as follows: $x <= bf$, meaning the drone starts at or before the buffer, $bf <
E$, meaning the buffer zone, or the distance between the buffer and the wall, is
nonzero, $a > 0$, meaning the drone is accelerating towards the wall when the
program starts, and $v > 0$, meaning the drone is moving forward towards the
wall when the program starts.

Finally, the hybrid system contains an $++$ that represents non-deterministic
choice with two different dynamics on either side of the $++$. The first
describes the initial state of the system by simply declaring that $x' = v$ and
$v' = a$, with a domain restriction specified as $x<=bf$. This ensures the
advanced controlled only is allowed to start when the drone has not yet reached
the buffer zone. The second side of the $++$ describes the dynamics of the
reversionary controller. Within this side of the $++$, a sequence of two steps
is performed. First, with the expression $?x=bf; vi:=v$, the velocity of the
drone is recorded once the drone reaches the buffer. This velocity, $vi$, is
needed to calculate important expressions used later in the proof. Second, the
expression $x'=v, v'=-(vi^2)/(2*(E-bf)) & x>=bf$ sets $v'$, or the acceleration
of the drone, to the expression $-(vi^2)/(2*(E-bf))$. This expression was
derived from the basic kinematic equations of motion using the initial velocity
that was previously recorded and the distance between the buffer and the wall.
The expression will make the drone decelerate towards the wall and have a
velocity of zero once the drone reaches it. The domain restriction of these
dynamics, $x>=bf$, ensures that the reversionary controller is only allowed to
start when the drone has passed the buffer. Lastly, the entire hybrid system is
enclosed in a $*$, which represents arbitrary repetition. This ensures the
system can be repeated as many times as needed.

Finally, the postconditions of the proof are described: that $x=E$, or the drone
has reached the wall, and $v=0$, or the drone has stopped. Since the system is
surrounded with $<>$, it is established that the postconditions will use the
existential quantified. In other words, this means the proof aims to show that
these characteristics are true for _some_ run of the system, as opposed to _all_
runs of the system.

The proof of this specification relies heavily on the weakness of
non-deterministic repetition when used alongside the existential quantifier.
This allows the first steps of this proof to be simply using the `iterated()`
tactic to separate the first three runs of the program from the repetition.
After separating each iteration with the `diamondOr()` tactic and eventually
removing the loop itself from the proof with the `orR()` tactic, we can isolate
only the iterations of the loop that are needed to fulfill the postconditions.
After this, the `solve()` tactic is used to solve and introduce a time variable
to the differential equations of the hybrid system, and the `existsR()` tactic
is used to specify the exact time at which the postconditions are true relative
to all other arbitrary characteristics of the system. Finally, two branches are
created that each require basic simplification using assumptions made earlier on
in the proof, and the proof can be completed with quantified elimination. In
other words, KeYmaera's can complete the proof because the final expressions are
trivially true.

The increased complexity of the proof for Example 2 has slowed progress and not
allowed a full specification to be written. However, some progress has been made
in determining the conditions for the start of the reversionary controller. This
work must be expanded upon for a full specification to be written and
subsequently proven.

`.docx` version of the above text can be found [here](../assets/methods-and-materials.docx)
